Publish MAS blog post (#2678)
matrix-org/matrix.org: content/blog/2025/04/2025-04-08-morg-now-running-mas.md

+++
date = "2025-04-08T15:30:00Z"
title = "Matrix.org is now running MAS!"

[taxonomies]
author = ["Quentin"]
category = ["matrix.org homeserver"]
+++

We're thrilled to announce that the migration of matrix.org to the Matrix Authentication Service (MAS) is complete and went according to plan - having been running for over 24h in our brave new world, we’re declaring the migration a success! As of Monday April 7th 07:30 UTC, matrix.org is running on Matrix’s [next-generation auth system](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/blob/hughns/delegated-oidc-architecture/proposals/3861-next-generation-auth.md) based on OAuth 2.0/OpenID Connect.

> This is no mean feat - the migration shifted all 45M access tokens and 110M users from Synapse to MAS in under 30 minutes (thanks in part to MAS’s cheeky use of the x86-64-v2 architecture; who knew that database migrations can be SIMD-accelerated?) - and represents the culmination of over 4 years of work to move Matrix to a modern authentication standard. Many thanks go to Element for funding, Hugh, Olivier and many other contributors who helped me make Next Gen Auth happen!

Reviewer: Shouldnt Quentin mention himsef here? After all he also did a lot here :)

Author: I think this sentence points out that Quentin has been doing the bulk of the work

> who helped me make Next Gen Auth happen!

If you want to phrase it in a way that puts more emphasis on Quentin, please suggest :)

Reviewer: ah missed the "me"

* A solid basis for all our upcoming authentication features, which we’ll enable on matrix.org as they get approved for merge in the Matrix spec:  
  * Login via QR code, complete with E2EE identity!  
  * Support for 2FA, MFA, Passkeys etc  
  * OAuth 2.0 scopes let users control what features an app can access.

## Your account has a new home

[**account.matrix.org**](https://account.matrix.org/) is now the dedicated home for managing your matrix.org account, which you can access through your browser or supported clients. Here you can:

- View and manage your connected devices  
- Update your email address and contact information  
- Change your password  
- Manage account settings and security options

(Eagle-eyed users may notice that client URLs for web logins aren’t shown in account.matrix.org - this only affects migrated devices; new logins will show up correctly. One workaround is to use the native device manager in Element Web to see the URLs of your old sessions).

## See it in action

If you’re wondering what the new world of Next Gen Auth looks like, but don’t want to mess around logging in to a new client - fear not, for we have videos!

> Here’s an example of native Next Gen Auth in Element Web logging into the shiny new matrix.org system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here’s an example of native Next Gen Auth in Element X iOS logging into the shiny new matrix.org system:
```
